The latest episode of Points of Interest, while not offering up any new
information for veteran players, made me take a moment and appreciate a lot of
the things that make Guild Wars 2 a special game that I often take for granted.
For me, it comes down to two main things: you don’t *have* to be a dick to other
people, and you're not penalised for playing something else.

### Keep it to yourself

Allow me to break down that first point. As highlighted in the livestream,
gathering nodes are individual and not a contest, everyone involved in killing
an enemy gets credit, and no–one is competing for loot drops. Having that aspect
of “I can do my own thing without having to screw anyone over” goes a long way
to developing a friendly in–game community. This is amplified by the ‘emergent
gameplay’ created by dynamic group events, and the megaserver technology that
underpins everything, attempting to put you in the same place as friends and
guildmates, which worked brilliantly when Dry Top was introduced.

### Playing around

So, playing other games. I must admit that I haven’t played Guild Wars regularly
for a few weeks now. I had a blast playing the first half of this living world
season and eagerly await the next half, but the second feature pack didn't
contain anything that particularly appealed to me. Thing is, that’s totally
cool. No problem. These days, all that ArenaNet actually *require* of me
is to login at least once every couple of weeks (once the living story is up and
running again), and even then that’s just to save myself some gems. None of the
time–gated content (laurels, ascended materials) are so crucial that I can’t
afford to skip a day (or thirty). The lack of the traditional gear treadmill is
another thing that we probably take for granted two years in, but means that I
don't have palpitations thinking about falling behind the curve if I happen to
miss content.

Call me a filthy casual, but this absolutely suits the way that I play games
now. I’ve had my fair share of 6 hour raid nights, coerced by increasingly
frustrated leaders on voice comms trying to get tired players to stick around
for just one more try on progression night, but having a family put paid to
that (I'm not complaining!). Not only that, but I have a stack of other games
piling up that I never get around to playing when I’m in full–blown GW2 mode.
Lately, I’ve been hitting up Battle.net (*Sayana#1207*, add me) for Hearthstone
and the new Diablo 3 expansion, Reaper of Souls, not to mention Kickstarted
games Shadowrun: Dragonfall Director’s Cut and Wasteland 2. Guild Wars 2 lets
me get away with a little digital infidelity without heavily penalising me, and
that works for me, and very much keeps me coming back in the end.

### Feedback

The most discussed facet of the second feature pack is definitely the new player
experience. Conversation has been wide–ranging, and vitriolic. It turned out
that much of the initial criticism was based on unintentional changes, which
were fixed quickly. From where I’m sitting, I would say that there are aspects
of the NPE that I like, and some that I’m not so fond of, but I can understand
the rationale behind the decisions. I spent some time at [EGX London](
http://www.egxlondon.net/) this week and saw a lot of completely new players
working through the first few levels of hastily created characters, and the
staggered introduction to game mechanics definitely seemed… kinder, than being
thrown straight in. Time will tell what further tweaks are made to the system,
but that isn’t really what I wanted to focus on.

It should go without saying, but here it is: the developers aren’t trying to
piss you off. For the most part, they’re gamers too. They want to make cool shit
for all of us. This reasoning, and a background in software development, leads
me to conclude that if something that I deem to be an obviously good thing isn’t
in the game already, like markers in Dry Top to show you which coins you already
collected, it’s either in the works, or is technically harder than it sounds.

Design by committee doesn’t work. Feedback is roundly a useful thing for our
community to engage in, but try to make it well–formed, constructive, and based
on your personal experience of the game as opposed to hearsay. If you’re angry
about changes or features that you feel are missing, try to get to the core of
what your point is, and communicate *that*. In the long run, it’s going to be a
lot more effective than shit–slinging.
